00:00:00.170 - 00:00:02.510, Speaker A: Like what is a formal definition.
00:00:05.410 - 00:00:05.726, Speaker B: For.
00:00:05.748 - 00:00:54.620, Speaker A: A good auction mechanism and how do we compare various mechanisms. I guess the emphasis was on good, but not in the ethical sense necessarily. Although I do think when you're coming up with the formal definition for what properties do you want, there's some notion of that, like for know the revelation principle or something. Like there's always some reason that you want such a property. So I think it's mostly on the formal and as Alex says, maybe there's a few metrics that we know what's bad in existing systems. So that might be a starting point. But yeah, I kind of originally intended that as a definition question of how do we define good in this?
00:00:57.470 - 00:01:55.362, Speaker C: My comment so then my main comment there would be that I see two big aspects to the question and I haven't passed through all the little items. There one aspect to me is about, again, measuring what's going on, essentially, and then there's another one that's more related to other issues. I think we're on the repository, which is sorry, let me check. So I don't there were some of the other sorry, not the issues anymore, but the research proposals, let me check. So there were some on the not the flashboard design. Sorry. Yeah, the survey of the existing auction literature right.
00:01:55.362 - 00:02:47.380, Speaker C: That I think Surya was in charge of. So I think this is a bit so in order to tackle the good question in terms of how good of a mechanism it is, I think that's highly dependent on this other question, like surveying what possibilities are out there before we can say something meaningful. So my main comment in that I think the component of understanding what's going on is fairly standalone and the infrastructure is there with mev inspect and that can be quantified, like separated into smaller question that has been done already in the issue. The main other comment I have there is I feel this issue is very much correlated with an understanding of the literature of options and mechanisms for doing this. So we have a universe or a space to compare this to other things, right?
00:02:48.070 - 00:02:55.880, Speaker D: Yeah, exactly, that makes sense. All right, so go ahead.
00:02:56.970 - 00:02:58.360, Speaker A: No, go ahead.
00:02:58.730 - 00:03:10.934, Speaker D: Okay. Yeah, that was also something I wanted to point out as well, where I think that there's a lot more to serving options than just sort of in theory.
00:03:10.982 - 00:03:11.194, Speaker C: Right.
00:03:11.232 - 00:03:49.320, Speaker D: And so part of that comes along with trying to evaluate what kind of adversaries we're dealing with, what adversarial model should we make? So I think all those questions are wrapped into how do you define an auction mechanism that works and is good? And so I think without first defining how we're going to say good, it's hard to then choose one auction mechanism until we have defined our adversary in that context, what is good?
00:03:53.210 - 00:04:29.220, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. So I think to me it sounds like you guys should maybe talk on discord async because that does make sense, that some understanding could be one way to approach the definition of what good is. So maybe a first pass could be even before we do like a full survey, just identifying what various adversary to definition mappings people have explored in the past are and maybe that could be something that's like in between the survey and this question or it could be a starting point that either issue owner kind of takes. Yeah.
00:04:31.030 - 00:05:17.314, Speaker C: Absolutely that makes sense. Yeah, I think that's the only comment that I have another comment more of a practical nature that I'm humbled that you tagged me for tackling this. I think I would really enjoy doing this but I will be taking time off during December and quite a bit of time off. So I might be off for a month or more. So I don't know if that fits the we can talk about this later but that fits the agenda really. I feel December is going to be a very active month for kickstarting this and I'll be mostly offline so that can be a problem. So perhaps I should take a more side role where I can take some of the things later down the line.
00:05:17.314 - 00:05:35.160, Speaker C: But I'm not sure I'm the best person given that to coordinate this question. I don't know. We can talk about that later but I didn't want to mention it just because if we consolidating this plan I think perhaps I shouldn't take this role right now.
00:05:36.010 - 00:06:27.640, Speaker A: Yeah, that all makes sense. I think it's best to coordinate with Tina and Alex, I guess, especially if anyone else has those kinds of concerns. I would say that from my perspective we have more of a long term interest than a short term interest. So I think what we care more about is long term having the right people working on things they are motivated to work on in the problem space and be enabled to do that in an effective way. So I think December we plan on in many ways formalizing some of these questions into more public digestible documents and maybe starting to have some idea of how we want to approach them. But I don't think we'll this is probably going to be a many year scale of research effort if we're going to answer these questions conclusively and if it kind of follows through to the end. So longer term that's probably more important.
00:06:28.110 - 00:08:19.382, Speaker B: Yeah, I think with regard to Alejo, your specific availability problem because we chatted about this before, the reason why I think it's not big of an issue for the medium paper because first of all, the papers have a specific timeline associated with it. But the papers are the beginning of our research process, right? So essentially the papers should actually be working coordinating with the rest of our flashbots contributor who's actually collecting the data on the inspector side to actually be able to answer some of the questions already. So I think the paper what we should do is actually scope out before you go on vacation is really to scope them out so that the remainder of the inspector team can actually map onto this. So that's kind of like why I mentioned it. It's actually better front loaded because defining these questions and refining the scope and actually sit down and answer exactly what we just discussed, it's more important so that in fact, it's not that, Alejo, you are going to be delivering every single piece of artifact. No, this is a collaborative effort. And I think the role of a research fellow we want is to basically make sure it's not the high level direction, but in terms of structure, set the structure in place so that we could have our collective mapping on and contribute easily and effortlessly.
00:08:19.382 - 00:08:38.642, Speaker B: And when you come back from the vacation, I think a lot of the things should be there if we actually set the motion in progress. That's what I meant. But of course it's idealistic. So welcome. We should definitely chat more about how this could play into your schedule. Great.
00:08:38.776 - 00:08:45.070, Speaker C: Sounds good. So before we keep going, do you.
00:08:45.080 - 00:08:50.774, Speaker A: Guys, anyone else here have questions or things that aren't clear or concerns on.
00:08:50.892 - 00:08:53.254, Speaker E: What has been discussed so far and.
00:08:53.292 - 00:08:57.030, Speaker A: The structure of the research effort?
00:09:17.090 - 00:09:18.000, Speaker F: All right.
00:09:20.130 - 00:09:56.170, Speaker B: I think we should continue with also diving because having heard from Surya and in fact, I think everyone here is Paper One folks because Paper Two folks somehow are all on vacation this week. For example, Austin and a couple other folks. And also, I think quite a few of the Paper Two questions we had interest expressed from the paradigm folks. So Dan was actually probably more relevant to the second question than second paper than Paper One. But here's dan. Dan is back. Hey, Dan.
00:09:56.170 - 00:10:36.358, Speaker B: Dan, I saw you unmuted yourself. Well, I guess Dan muted himself again. We can see you, we just can't hear you. Well, okay, yeah, it looks like, Dan, your mic is not quite working, but speak up whenever your mic is working or type.
00:10:36.444 - 00:10:37.480, Speaker A: Sorry about that.
00:10:38.270 - 00:10:39.340, Speaker B: Oh, great.
00:10:40.430 - 00:10:44.620, Speaker F: Hi. Sorry, didn't mean to be disruptive. Had to drop for a second.
00:10:45.390 - 00:11:51.920, Speaker B: Oh, not a problem at all. Once again, most of the folks here on the current call are interested in jamming and contributing to Paper One, whereas Paper Two where community and the ethical chapter has a lot more to do with I think Charlie said him and Giorgio's are definitely into kind of answering some of the Paper Two questions. We also have Austin Williams, who will join us next week after he come back from vacation, for Paper Two discussion as well. But I think just in general, Jen, how do you see yourself being involved in the research process? And do you see yourself taking on a research question or more as a chipping in when necessary because there are a lot of questions here you can see from the yeah.
00:11:55.250 - 00:12:24.760, Speaker F: The question I'm personally most interested in is about sort of like malicious versus benign mev. I'm not sure if that falls under the should we allow any mev on the system what that is and basically the question is detecting one or the other, how to distinguish them. But in mean I think Charlie's sort of going to take the lead on the research stuff from our side so I was planning to mostly just help him and Joseph with whatever they decide to look at. Yeah, have him take the lead on that.
00:12:25.530 - 00:13:14.538, Speaker B: Yeah, that would be actually I think that's one of the probably most challenging questions on Paper Two and also most interested questions. In fact we have so many research fellows all expressed that whether they are the research fellow for this question, they would like to contribute to this part of the question or have a say in it. So it'll be quite interesting of a process. Cool. Okay. So before we jump to can we go back to paper one? So Alex, would you mind well actually Alex, can you click on the PDF file that I shared with the mind map because I think it may be easier shorter to kind of look yeah, but you have to zoom in a little bit. Sorry about that.
00:13:14.538 - 00:13:44.740, Speaker B: Yeah. So with regard to paper one, we covered Allejos part and kind of like I think there's more things to be figured out there I think surya you mentioned here and there. But I want to hear more about what's your approach in terms of how comfortable you are in kind of handling these questions. What are your thoughts and plans in terms of going forward next step.
00:13:46.810 - 00:14:07.994, Speaker D: Right, so I think the actual survey part is probably quite simple in terms of just sort of creating a taxonomy for all the sort of auction mechanisms out there. I think the more challenging question really is once we have this taxonomy, how do we choose which one to go.
00:14:08.032 - 00:14:08.620, Speaker C: By.
00:14:11.870 - 00:14:36.366, Speaker D: The actual auction? Survey part I think is quite simple. But I think the other question of first defining good and bad for mev and then in the context of that, only then can we actually see evaluate the different types of auctions. So my plan going forward is essentially in the next what's the date today? 19th.
00:14:36.398 - 00:14:36.546, Speaker C: Right.
00:14:36.568 - 00:15:18.580, Speaker D: So my goal is in the next two, maybe three weeks have some sort of taxonomy created for the auction mechanism I've looked at so far. I'm hoping in that time that at least through discord or something synchronously, I can talk more with either Alejo as long as he is around or somebody else who's interested in sort of talking more about the other question about defining a good auction or good mev extraction. And so I think that'll be my main approach for the next about two weeks probably.
00:15:21.030 - 00:16:05.186, Speaker B: Cool. Well, that's actually good. I think that works out well with our timeline. I think what we in the parallel are planning to do, and we also shared a bit with you, is that we want to because the moment we post our east research post, which is Monday, the release day is Monday, regardless what happens, lightning, whatever, thunderstorms, like the world come down. No, we're going to launch on Monday. So that said, we actually have a call to action on our research e three research post and medium post for people who are interested in contributing to answer GitHub issues. So I think one of the things also will be great too, as you are thinking about these questions.
00:16:05.186 - 00:17:10.322, Speaker B: Add more GitHub issues, but not too many. Don't spam the issues, but we want to use Git issues as ways that you can write out questions in your mind that you would like to jam more with the community. You see what I mean? Right now, GitHub issue seven has like three different breakdowns. I think I would suggest personally us using the GitHub issues as one question per oh, sorry, not one research question, but one sub question, for example, and be very specific, like add auctions, other priority auctions, kind of be more specific with the ask so that people can actually answer these questions and it provokes answers. So come up with good questions that feeds into each of the sub questions that you want to do. And also what you mentioned, the taxonomy part I think would be great to actually follow the format of. So Alex shared a little bit on our GitHub.
00:17:10.322 - 00:17:55.662, Speaker B: We want to follow the EIP process, but it's really about the like kind of a template because we like how clear it is in terms of outlining what you're trying to kind of think about writing your outline but in a proposal format. And that way all the issues can all link back to the proposal in the markdown. So that's kind of like the simplest, I think, way for the public community with technical community to be able to contribute to these research questions. But they're nice to have. I would say that I think mostly a lot of these research will be dependent on the research fellow's, independent thinking and discussions with other research fellow. But you leverage GitHub as a forum.
00:17:55.726 - 00:17:56.500, Speaker D: I think.
00:17:59.530 - 00:18:43.060, Speaker C: I won't comment on the issues that I had noted. I think they would benefit from some connection, some more explicit connection with the different research proposals. So right now, again, some overlap directly because the title is the same, but there's no explicit mention in the issues as of to which proposals they're related. And perhaps it's hard to enforce that if we are going to have people opening issues freely. But I think it would be useful to have some form of mapping from one to the other so that's a little bit more organized for a newcomer at least the ones we open and we know that are related to the different.
00:18:46.150 - 00:19:36.550, Speaker B: I think that's why we are having this call right now before we actually go to the public, so that Alex and I can work with you guys in kind of refining the questions and linking them back to the RFPs and kind of draft a couple dummy RFPs? Sorry. Flashbots proposals. Research proposals. So that we'll probably DM you guys before this weekend, kind of draft an outline. Kind of like in your mind how you want to approach these questions. At least we have a couple ones out there that could actually help the general public better understand what is our approach in examining these questions. Once again, the question research question number one is very well specified.
00:19:36.550 - 00:20:09.002, Speaker B: Question two is a bit underspecified but it's still kind of pretty well written already which should establish the connection and flash out the question a little bit more and with surya kind of have like an outline in terms of the technology. You're talking about your yeah, the well, that's that's good. And what about let's go to the third one, Sunny. Sunny has very strong opinions.
00:20:09.066 - 00:20:09.582, Speaker A: Sorry.
00:20:09.716 - 00:20:53.502, Speaker C: Before we jump to the third one, a quick comment. Sorry. I'll be happy to talk to you about these different mechanisms. We can iterate on that. I'll still have a couple of weeks before I leave, so happy to that. Perhaps one question on terminology. Maybe the meaning we want for good in these first questions is more about efficiency, right? How can we build an efficient auction mechanism? I mean, to distinguish it from good in terms of an ethical good where we want mev extraction that's not harmful or that's not I don't know, bad in some ethical terms, which is the aim of paper two and it's a much more nuanced question.
00:20:53.502 - 00:21:05.280, Speaker C: So I think the efficient thing will give us a much more operational criterion to work with. But I don't know. Philip, is this notion of efficiency you had in mind with the good?
00:21:07.510 - 00:21:19.302, Speaker A: I think that's one key aspect. I think for sure it's valid to say something that's good should be efficient then must understand what efficient means.
00:21:19.356 - 00:21:20.760, Speaker B: To understand good.
00:21:21.290 - 00:21:53.006, Speaker A: Then you kind of have a more specific, maybe issue of what is an efficient option mechanism and it references what is the good option mechanism? Then there's like an open question of is there something that is good that's in maybe conflict with being efficient. Maybe there's a fundamental impossibility between balancing efficient for miners and traders or once that's actually specified out or in having both efficiency for miners and traders and keeping the gas low or something like that.
00:21:53.028 - 00:21:53.550, Speaker B: I don't know.
00:21:53.620 - 00:22:44.770, Speaker A: But there might be more to being good than just efficiency. But I think that's for sure part of it and required. And I think in general my vision was that from these issues we would create more issues. So I think that's like a natural example of how we can refine that and maybe it turns out that good and efficient are the same thing and then we kind of merge those into one issue. But I think having that as a downstream question is one way to start specifying it and we probably won't be able to answer any of these top level questions anytime soon. They'll just keep generating more questions for now. And one of the things I maybe proposed before as like a shower idea is it might even be cool if we have a graphical explorer of the dependency graphs of all our GitHub issues because I think goal that we want to set up is to generate more questions from every question we answer.
00:22:44.770 - 00:22:48.260, Speaker A: Also makes sense.
00:22:51.510 - 00:22:52.260, Speaker C: Thanks.
00:22:54.310 - 00:22:59.926, Speaker A: Yeah, no problem. Yeah. So I intended to be very open ended. If you think efficiency is a good.
00:22:59.948 - 00:23:01.686, Speaker B: Thing to study then absolutely I think.
00:23:01.708 - 00:23:04.920, Speaker A: That'S makes sense to break that off, for sure.
00:23:07.630 - 00:24:18.000, Speaker B: Cool. Well Sunny, are you there? We'd like to move on to the third research question. Yeah. So Sunny and Dave, I think they were already independent of Flashbas considering doing a survey paper on essentially MEB across different you are we still sharing screen? Sorry, can you still see the currently this is what we have discussed in the past but this is a question that has been slightly under specified yet this is more of a downstream question as well because it's answerable or from a survey approach. So what are your thoughts on taking question number three? What do you think you may approach it? How do you think you may approach it?
00:24:19.410 - 00:24:25.940, Speaker E: Well, what we're working on is not so much about sort of paper across different architectures, it is more of.
00:24:27.670 - 00:24:27.986, Speaker A: What.
00:24:28.008 - 00:24:43.880, Speaker E: Are the different formats. Figuring out what sort of information is needed by someone in order to do to extract mev and then design an architecture to hide as much of that information as possible.
00:24:46.090 - 00:25:09.360, Speaker B: I understand in terms of this question. So then I guess the key is to identify the overlapping and to see whether this question you think is interesting for Sika to take on fellowship. I guess that's the question. Sorry, I wasn't clear. I see.
00:25:10.290 - 00:25:13.040, Speaker E: I'd say that most of the.
00:25:16.790 - 00:25:17.058, Speaker B: I.
00:25:17.064 - 00:26:12.690, Speaker E: Don'T know the problem with this question is I really don't see much big differences between architecture, what MV would look like in most work and stake architectures. I think as long as you have a proposer who proposes the blocks, I think it ends up being the same. I guess really the only place that really matters is leaderless protocols such as avalanche style stuff and yeah, I think that's an interesting question and I haven't really thought too much about it yet. But as far as I can tell, proof of work and proof of stake system should not be that different. And same with the transaction ordering system. I feel like the consensus protocol and stuff is not what's relevant here. I think really this should just be redesigned for a question of like, oh, leader versus leaderless.
00:26:15.930 - 00:26:17.302, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's fair.
00:26:17.436 - 00:26:19.334, Speaker B: Phil, any comments on that?
00:26:19.532 - 00:27:22.134, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's definitely a good way to clarify that question. I think the other related thing that I wanted to maybe discuss there is besides leader versus leaderless, which I think is one of the main things for sure, but also maybe the impact of finality. And in practice, how does that make a difference? And I don't know if that's something we can just point out and kind of talk about at a high level or if we can say something more precise because it kind of seems like finality is almost like some sort of defense against long term reversions. I don't think it affects short term mev. I think we can kind of make that case, but like, long term mev probably will be affected. But also there's a game theory in POW that makes long term mev of like, large reorgs probably unlikely just because people don't accept large reorgs as legitimate in general. So, yeah, maybe just something I wanted to touch on in addition.
00:27:22.134 - 00:28:02.098, Speaker A: But I think definitely also leader versus leaderless is going to be really important to pin down, especially because I know for a fact when I talked to Goon about mev, like two years ago, he was like, oh, avalanche solves this completely. It's leaderless, so no issues. And I don't think that position is written down anywhere, nor is it the position of most people at Ava. So I'm not trying to forward it as a straw man, but I will say that I think it will be important. People will say that, oh, doesn't leaderless. If there's no leader, there's no problem. And I do think that there's a lot to say about what the process looks like and how to design a good process context.
00:28:02.274 - 00:28:22.890, Speaker E: Yeah, maybe rephrase it as Nakamoto versus BFP versus avalanche and those three classes, there might be other consensus protocols as well, but maybe by restricting it to only those three classes.
00:28:26.610 - 00:28:35.060, Speaker A: I think that's reasonable. And probably a lot of the Nakamoto and BFT style will be the same if leader bases BFT. Yeah.
00:28:40.390 - 00:30:38.786, Speaker B: Sorry. Go ahead, Alex. I think Alex is about to say what I'm going to propose is that I think it's actually good to hear what everyone's actual breakdowns in kind of thinking on your feet if you were to take on the question, how you would frame the question and approach it. I think the next step after this call, what we'll do is that Alex and I will ping each of you and share with you the exact link to the FRP and kind of you can take some time and articulate in terms of if this were an answerable question, how would you answer it? But however, the FRP format is very much, I would say, up in the air and open for like you could just revise it to as you see fit because I don't think we have a perfect template for it. But if anyone has a good template for this, we are very happy. I think that the key there is that this is a document that is supposed to be a living document and working doc and such that it's clear enough that it structures the questions and break it down and your approaches and what needs to be done there in a more elaborate fashion like a one pager. And that until essentially the drafts is complete or the artifacts are like, this will be the living document that actually feed into I think Phil, you mentioned you would like to put things together, starting to do and focus on doing that in mid December.
00:30:38.786 - 00:31:56.720, Speaker B: So essentially I think the RFPs should be pretty much fleshed out not just questions, but also some of the answers and approaches. Of course it will be continued going, but so that I would hope that whatever we produce, this will be one succinct summary on where things are and can index a lot of the artifacts or reference a lot of artifacts that's being produced along the way. So that when you put things together, it will be also easy for you to put it together. But I don't know how exactly we can make this as easy as possible for the research follows and for the community at large to understand without misinterpretation what are these questions and how to answer and participate in them, yet produce stuff that we could use and put together. So do you have any suggestions? What do you think about the idea of using these FRPS, these templates for the formulation of questions and for the outlining of approaches and for essentially flashing it out and become a standalone piece that can be put together?
00:32:00.470 - 00:32:41.982, Speaker C: Alejo sorry, no, just one quick comment. I think that's a great idea. The only comment would be to make sure to I think it would be good to distinguish the questions from the answer. So not use this space to answer the questions, but have the proposals be just that, just proposals and then have a different separate space for the actual work. And that might depend, like the format might depend might be on GitHub or it might be elsewhere, depending on the different questions. But I guess what I'm going at is that I think this should sort of consolidate with the questions and then they should sort of freeze and then the actual work in solving them.
00:32:42.036 - 00:33:30.782, Speaker B: Perhaps it would be better to have it elsewhere. I think that's practical. What would you suggest elsewhere? And the reason why once again we went back to GitHub has more to do with the fact that we actually want to weed out the non technical contributors at the like not weed out them. Like if you don't take the effort of actually watching the GitHub and actually don't take the effort of actually look at the MD and comment on the issues. I think people are probably just not investing sufficient thoughts and interest in it. That's why we want to really use the GitHub issue to engage the community. And also there's one single place.
00:33:30.782 - 00:34:25.018, Speaker B: We don't want to have too many different separate sites for this. But I do agree that some of the answers are either going to be, for example, paper one, research question number one. It will be a lot of what Scott Bigelow has been working on with the MEB Inspector team that could actually is already live on GitHub and it's open source so that should be referenced. But I see like I guess surya and if the answer lives somewhere else, what would be the most comfortable way for you to collaborate? If we use FRP as the questions like flashed out thoughts, proposals of how to answer these questions, then where do the answers lie?
00:34:25.194 - 00:35:04.240, Speaker C: Yeah, it can be a GitHub as well. I don't have no strong feelings for platform. I think each sub team perhaps will find a better place and then we can maybe consolidate. I don't know if it had an idea for this but maybe another repo for the paper or something like that. I'm sort of platform agnostic. I think the GitHub thing out weeding out non technical people might make sense. What I'm just saying is I think there would be a benefit from separating the question from the answers because otherwise if you start mutating the questions into answers in the same document, we might lose track of what we were striving to answer in the first place.
00:35:04.240 - 00:35:06.560, Speaker C: But GitHub it's fine.
00:35:09.410 - 00:36:28.380, Speaker B: Yeah, but I do understand it probably posts a lot of like we can also link it to Google Docs because I know some of you guys prefer much better to work on Google Docs which is definitely easier for a collaboration. Like we could have these posts and freeze there and issues referring to them and discussions for reference. But then the living dog for the answers would probably be somewhere else. It could also be on your blog because I think it doesn't really matter where it is and we credit all of the research fellows and people contribute regardless so whose contribution charts and graphs and data gets used. Yeah, okay. So I guess we will go into a deeper dive into paper two similar to the format today with the folks who come back from vacation next week before Thanksgiving. But aside from that, I think there's a lot to do.
00:36:28.380 - 00:37:26.934, Speaker B: To sum it up, it seems that we need to work with each prospect research fellows on refining the FRP. We need to ask the research fellows to actually refine IFRP in fact, but we will work with you to help see what is the best way to do it. And second is to refine the GitHub issues with. Also research fellows so that the GitHub issues are answerable because a lot of them may not necessarily have GitHub issues, but they also may not necessarily need to have GitHub issues. For example, once again, I think research Fellows should create GitHub issues that's associated with your FRP in particular. So that's basically it. And the timeline I also shared in the Discord Channel, the estimated timeline that we hope we will freeze the FRP.
00:37:26.934 - 00:38:46.978, Speaker B: We hope to freeze the FRP. I guess I wouldn't say freeze. I would say that we'll have a relatively finalized FRP draft for these questions fleshed out by this weekend, so that when we open source on Monday, everything will be very clear without confusion and the research questions also to be polished before the end of the weekend second deadline timeline in terms of and also works with a lot of people. Vacation schedule is December 16, 16th or 15th or 17th. I forgot, I shared it in the Research Discord Channel that we would like to have the first draft of the answers. I would say done so that then Phil can go ahead and actually put together these pieces into potentially an outline and draft for paper one and see what we are missing. So those are essentially for December, and I think Phil should probably by early January we'll have a relatively more or less complete draft, but at the same time paying the research fellows for kind of things that are missing.
00:38:46.978 - 00:38:48.710, Speaker B: Would that work, Phil?
00:38:52.170 - 00:38:53.720, Speaker A: Yeah, that works for me.
00:38:54.730 - 00:40:05.486, Speaker B: Would that work for Alejo and Surya? I think the timeline relatively compact, but I think yeah, let me know if it works. That's okay. That's great. And lastly, I think Alex had raised a couple questions about in our research papers, there's no mentioning of economics, research and governance. And also I kind of identified that in our current research roadmap, there's no mentioning of any specific transaction encryption, including SGX related research. So my question is, do we consider those items within the scope of the research at this phil, this is a question.
00:40:05.588 - 00:40:07.360, Speaker D: Can you say that again?
00:40:08.130 - 00:40:09.920, Speaker B: Sorry, can you hear me?
00:40:10.530 - 00:40:11.934, Speaker D: Can you say that again?
00:40:11.972 - 00:41:21.190, Speaker B: I said oh, okay, sorry, my bad. I may be breaking off. So, two questions, two topics are not covered in the research roadmap for paper one and paper two because they don't really fit there, but we think maybe necessary for us to get some sense. One is economics and governance. So governance I think we can set aside because that has to do with some of the paper two questions. But in terms of the profit distribution that has been between the miners and the searchers or ecosystem holders, that is an area of research that should probably start at some point. But the question is, when does it start? Should it be in this space or should it be after we produce paper one and two to be a subject? If it's in this space, it could be also independent as a research topic.
00:41:21.190 - 00:41:33.690, Speaker B: That's independent hero one and period two. So basically economics and governance is not included. Current research. Roman.
00:41:38.270 - 00:42:03.330, Speaker A: I think that falls under what's a good mechanism. I mean, if it needs economics, then what are good economics is part of that, and if it needs governance, then what is good governance is part of that. I think that also falls into paper too. So if we want to specify those more clearly, Tina, you can feel free to also add issues, I think, and I think those are valid.
00:42:06.090 - 00:42:06.840, Speaker C: Other.
00:42:09.210 - 00:42:39.680, Speaker A: SGX and other methods of encryption I also think falls under a good efficient mechanism. Like if it needs privacy, then what is the best technical way to accomplish that? Privacy, I think is a logical follow up. So maybe the question is too vague, but I think those are all valid refinements of that question. As for timeline, I don't really have a strong preference. I think it depends when we find people who want to own that and also when the engineering side needs things to happen by.
00:42:42.130 - 00:43:59.420, Speaker B: Yeah, okay. I think within the Blashback timeline, I do think that economics question may need a bit may need to be front loaded a little bit so that at least there is something that the engineering side can benchmark too, or can provide artifacts that actually would answer some of the hypotheses on this. But yeah, let me think about so because the first question, good mechanism, let me discuss with like if you have any thoughts on the economics question being part of what is a good option mechanism. Also, I think Stefan, who's not on this call, he mentioned that he's actually interested in seeing the auction survey because personally his opinion is that the auction mechanism will answer the other half of the economics question, at least more practically from the engineering perspective, that they need input. So I think alejo, is anything on this? Because it's not really within the scope currently.
00:44:00.430 - 00:44:21.120, Speaker C: Yeah, no, but I agree with what Phil said. I think we have to at least intentionally think about these questions when thinking out like what a good option mechanism is, at least think a little bit about these things and then we can probably define the question a little bit better.
00:44:23.270 - 00:44:59.722, Speaker B: Cool. And surya anything from your side that you think may be relevant to the added on economics. I don't mind at the moment. Cool. Awesome. I think this is really productive. I think we have a next step to do, a lot to do, but anyone has any questions? Phil, I can see your face.
00:44:59.776 - 00:45:02.220, Speaker A: Thanks for taking the time, everyone.
00:45:03.550 - 00:45:13.380, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you. Did you get to discuss with Vitalik a bit about our research, our work?
00:45:13.750 - 00:45:18.514, Speaker A: Yeah, I'll post in Discord in a bit. We'll talk about it.
00:45:18.712 - 00:45:26.840, Speaker B: Okay. He's pretty excited, I think, so that's that's interesting. That's awesome to hear.
00:45:27.850 - 00:45:32.760, Speaker C: Awesome. Hey Phil, when are we getting your paper? When is it out?
00:45:33.210 - 00:45:34.280, Speaker A: I don't know.
00:45:36.970 - 00:45:46.054, Speaker B: Can we accelerate publishing process? Can we do anything to accelerate it? We're going to write a meeting.
00:45:46.102 - 00:46:04.400, Speaker A: You'd want to do Tina? Let's put it that way. Hopefully next week. I'm hoping next week, but we're just running the final experiments now, and it's just a matter of getting everyone happy with the results, really.
00:46:06.390 - 00:46:24.680, Speaker B: I'm so sorry. I ghosted you on sending you the super secret draft of Phil's. Alejo really wants to read paper three. I forgot. I'll send it.
00:46:25.210 - 00:46:55.920, Speaker A: Yeah. Feel free to read the super secret draft. Just don't share it or anything like that. That would be cool because it's not all my work, so I would feel bad if the co authors got screwed, but just read it and enjoy. But hopefully the experiments will be much better in the final version. I will say that disclaimer that the super secret draft has a very limited crappy set of experiments that were done on a deadline that we decided not to meet at the end of it.
00:46:56.850 - 00:46:59.280, Speaker C: Awesome. We do. Thanks.
00:47:01.810 - 00:47:06.662, Speaker B: Perfection here. Yeah. Awesome. Thanks, guys.
00:47:06.796 - 00:47:07.142, Speaker D: Cool.
00:47:07.196 - 00:47:07.366, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:47:07.388 - 00:47:08.918, Speaker A: Thanks so much, guys. See you soon.
00:47:09.004 - 00:47:09.718, Speaker B: Have a good one.
00:47:09.804 - 00:47:10.920, Speaker C: Have a good one.
00:47:13.210 - 00:47:14.500, Speaker A: Thanks. You guys too.
